# **Project Requirements Document: Chat Bot Enem **

The following table outlines the detailed functional requirements of Chat Bot Enem.

| Requirement ID | Description | User Story | Expected Behavior/Outcome |
|:--------------:|-------------|------------|---------------------------|
|RN001           | Submission documents | As a student, I want Chat to answer ENEM questions based on the texts of documents that I provide.| The Chat application should provide a button for submitting documents. The submitted documents should be loaded and transformed into embeddings and then stored in a vector database in memory, to then be queried by a retriever and chained to a prompt that will be sent along with the user's input.
|
    RN002           
| 
    LLM Agent Recommender 
|
 As a student, I want to ask the model to ask me which of the four areas of knowledge I want to get questions about: linguagens, códigos e suas tecnologias; ciências humanas e suas tecnologias; ciências da natureza e suas tecnologias; and matemática e suas tecnologias.
| 
The Chat application must have a Multi-Agent architecture, which will return the ENEM question that best fits the user's request. The architecture is composed of two components: a Recommendation Agent (RA) and an Item Agent (ITA). A Recommendation Agent will be an LLM-based Agent that will receive a user request and generate a summary in the form of a prompt for the ITA.

The summary generated by the RA must be formed through an instruction sent to the AR's own LLM. This summary will contain the user's initial level classification (Beginner or Advanced) and which area of ​​knowledge best fits the question they are searching for. The AR sends the resulting summary to the ITA and waits for the ITA's response before returning it to the user.

The ITA has its own ChromaDB database, located in the "data_agent_[i]" folder in the project root, where [i] will be the ITA number (as other ITAs may appear in the future). Each ITA has its own LLM and its own memory, and also queries the input sent from the AR through the Vector Storage in ChromaDB, accessed through langchain libraries. Each Agent Item has a collection in its ChromaDB named in the following pattern: dataset_enem_{model_name}, where the variable model_name is the name of the model, currently being "gpt-4o-mini". The name of this ChromaDB collection may change in the future. The data present in the ITAs' knowledge bases are embeddings.

The application must allow the Recommender Agent to obtain the user's prompt and generate a new prompt, sending it to the ITA, which will respond with a question that adapts to the user's context in terms of Difficulty Level and Knowledge Area.

The RA is responsible for identifying the knowledge area and the difficulty level of the question to which the user is referring. It must have an instance of llms, with its own instruction section and conversation memory.

The ITA knows all the ENEM questions, their areas of knowledge and difficulty levels. It must have an instance of llms, with its own instruction section and conversation memory.

Areas of knowledge:
Languages, codes and their technologies;
Human sciences and their technologies;
Natural sciences and their technologies;
Mathematics and their technologies;

Question difficulty level:
It is passed through a field in the question called "Difficulty = [number]", where [number] is a floating point value that, if less than or equal to 0.5, is classified as Beginner level; if greater, it is classified as Advanced level.

Example of use case: The user tells the RA: "I want a question about mathematics and its technologies." The RA asks if he has ever taken an ENEM exam. The user answers yes or no. If the answer is Yes, he is classified as Beginner, otherwise, he is classified as Advanced. AR: "Contacts ITA and sends the prompt: "Tell me a question you know about mathematics and its technologies at the Beginner Level." ITA: "Returns the question to RA." RA returns the result to the user.
|